docs: SDK design document (#32)
mrs-electronics-inc/mrs-sdk-qt: docs/src/content/docs/reference/mvp.md

---
title: MVP Overview
description: This page outlines the benefits, goals, and features required for the MVP.
---

This document outlines the benefits, goals, and general technical requirements for the Minimum Viable Product (MVP) of the MRS Qt SDK.

<details><summary>Revision History</summary>

| Version | Date | Author | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1.0 | 2025-11-06 | @bambam955 | Initial version (#32) |

</details>

## 1 Benefits

> This SDK will greatly simplify the development process for software/firmware applications that target MRS Electronics hardware platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This SDK will greatly simplify the development process for Qt applications that target MRS Electronics hardware platforms.
```

> New and existing customers for any and all of our products will be able to quickly get started developing their own custom applications with well-built Qt-based utilities that provide **drop-in functionality** for such tasks as **GPIO and CAN interfaces, Spoke.Zone API/MQTT integration, and management of connected CAN modules.**

Reviewer: I feel like we could have another paragraph or two in the benefits section.

Benefits that could be made more explicit:
- Saving time and effort by using the  SDK instead of figuring everything out from scratch
- An imported SDK means that it is easier to incorporate bug fixes and future improvements (as compared to copy-and-pasted method)
- Some other things that I'm not thinking of. I'll add them if I think of them.

  - *5.9.1:* MConn/FUSION Buildroot toolchain
  - *5.12.9:* MConn/FUSION Yocto toolchain
  - *5.15.0:* Qt5 desktop toolchain
  - *6.8.1:* Neuralplex toolchain

### 2.2 Documentation

The SDK will be documented at an in-depth level to enable its effective use by developers.

Documentation will come in 2 forms:

- **Extensive comments in the code** to explain all the features of the SDK on a function-by-function basis
- **Detailed external documentation** hosted in a public docs website for reference outside the code

If possible, the documentation in the website will contain auto-generated web versions of the comments in the code.

### 2.3 Automated Testing

A detailed suite of **unit tests** will be implemented for the SDK to make the codebase as stable as possible.

Full test coverage is not necessary for MVP; however, that should be a long-term goal, and the MVP must get as close to full coverage as reasonably possible.

The unit tests will be **run automatically using CI/CD jobs**.

## 3 Features

### 3.1 Build System

The SDK must support a wide range of different [environments](#21-supported-environments). To accomplish this, a small **custom build system** will be required.

> This system needs to be **compatible with both QMake and CMake**. However, we encourage using CMake, especially for NeuralPlex projects that use Qt6. Qt moved to CMake as its main build system with Qt6 and is not actively developing QMake anymore; support for QMake is required mostly to better support projects using older Qt versions.

Reviewer: Ok. So that limitation is just for specific documents like this one?

The build system will be easy to configure from the developer side and provide the following:

- **Macros** for dynamic compilation to different environments
  - Example: an `MRS_DEVICE_NEURALPLEX` macro to enable NeuralPlex-specific code

> - Automatic configuration of **build targets**

Reviewer: We should look at other projects that support many different hardware targets for inspiration for our build system, rather than making it all up from scratch. For example, PlatformIO is pretty easy to configure from `platformio.ini`.

- Sending live dashboard data via MQTT
- Uploading various types of data files
- OTA software updates
- Triggering alerts

The SDK's client will provide a convenient interface for all of these features.

See https://docs.spoke.zone/ for more information about Spoke.Zone.

#### 3.2.1 Spoke.Zone API Client

The SDK will provide a robust client for integrating with the Spoke.Zone API. This client will be accessible to applications and implemented in a way that **minimizes required app boilerplate** while still providing full functionality.

The methods for making all API requests should have the same general signature:

- Any request-specific arguments, such as data file ID
- Arguments for a callback function to be executed when the response is returned
  - Necessary because API requests are asynchronous
- Argument to specify the timeout length on the request
- Method immediately returns the success of the initial request

##### 3.2.1.1 Device Token Management

Devices are authenticated with the Spoke.Zone platform via [access tokens](https://docs.spoke.zone/developers/device-integration/device-token-renewal/).

> The SDK's Spoke.Zone client will **manage the device's access token** without requiring any interaction from the main application.

Reviewer: What about including a way for the app to manually trigger token refreshes?

Using the flasher will require integration with a CAN bus proxy interface via Qt signal-slot connections.

The flasher API will be simple:

- The `scan` method will **look for MRS modules** on the connected CAN bus
  - Results will be returned as a list of objects containing all the relevant data about the modules
- The `select` method will tell one of the selected modules to **prepare for flashing**
- The `flash` method will **read and flash the given S19 package file** to the module
  - Flash progress will be incrementally reported back to the app

The flasher will be responsible for notifying the app of the results of each operation and providing **robust error handling** and output for any issues that occur.

#### 3.4.1 Closed-Source Proprietary Flashing Protocol

MRS's protocol for flashing connected CAN modules is proprietary, and thus the implementation of the protocol cannot be entirely open-source.

We recognize that this somewhat undermines the open-source goals of the SDK; however, we decided it would be better to provide a closed-source implementation for use in the SDK than no implementation at all.

> So, the CAN flasher library will be precompiled and the binary stored in the SDK repository. Then, during compilation, the library will be statically linked to the rest of the SDK. This is similar to the pattern we use for the `mosquitto` MQTT library in the Spoke.Zone client implementation.

Reviewer: I'm a bit uncomfortable with storing the binaries directly in the SDK repo. I would rather that we have a directory for the binary to be place, and customers can get the binaries by contacting sales when they need them.

The process for updating the binaries, including who is allowed to do so, must be well-documented.

In the future, we should come up with a better system for integrating the closed-source flasher. Options:

- Move the binaries to a private repo and import as a Git submodule to keep this repo clean
  - Allows for easier verification in the other repo
- Store the binaries with Git LFS
  - Add CI job that verifies a checksum on each build
- Implement system that publishes the binaries as release artifacts and then fetches them before compilation/linking
  - Separate Linux package containing the shared libraries?

However, for now, we will just include the binaries directly to get a basic working implementation going.

### 3.5 Digital GPIOs

> MRS products all include a variety of GPIO pins. The SDK must provide an easy **interface for setting up, reading from, and writing to GPIO pins**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All MRS products include a variety of GPIO pins. The SDK must provide an **easy interface for setting up, reading from, and writing to GPIO pins**.
```

What do you think? It seems to read better to me. Also, why not include "easy" in the bold section? It seems the adjective should stick with the noun.
